---
title: the executive bar
slug: the_executive_bar
date: 2022-08-26T19:42:09-05:00
draft: false

categories: ["story"]
image: la_barra_ejecutiva.jpeg
---

I saw her standing on a corner, and if not for the silent wind gently moving
her hair, she looked like the most beautiful work of art, something to be
admired from afar and not touched.

When I finally walked close enough, the combination of her perfume and natural
scent made my mouth smile against my will. I heard a "Hello" over my shoulder,
and as I turned my face, I couldn't stop hoping this wasn't a dream. Even in
the numerous nights I had been alone in my bed, imagining a similar moment,
there was never a woman as beautiful as her.

"Do you know the story of the princess standing on the hill?" I said, raising
my voice, no longer looking at the floor, and my eyes sought her gaze. She
looked at me strangely while holding her cellphone. Apparently, the greeting
wasn't for me, but upon hearing those peculiar words, she signaled with her
right hand for me to wait. After finishing the call, she said, "What an odd way
to greet a woman you've just met..."

Embarrassed, all I could do was release a small laugh, which was quickly cut
short by the sensation of her hand holding mine. "Come, let's have a drink, and
you can finish telling me the story of the princess." As soon as I touched her,
I entered that dark room where I could only see, feel, and hear her. Her hands
were too soft, as if I were holding a small ball of cotton. She had beautiful
cinnamon-colored skin, long brown hair, and wore a simple yet elegant short
black dress with white sneakers.

I couldn't notice anything other than her face; everything else appeared
blurry, and anything other than her voice sounded like an annoying noise in the
background of my mind. I can't say for certain what we were talking about; I
was completely focused on observing each of the precious shapes forming on her
rosy lips as the words left her mouth and on following the subtle changes in
the direction of her gaze as we delved into that conversation.

Feeling a rough touch on my shoulder, that room in which I was with her
shattered, and with it, the blurry figures took shape, and the sounds began to
make sense. It was the hand of a dark-skinned, somewhat obese, and short man
who quickly and unceremoniously said, "Will you attend to him, or can you be
with me for a while?" She tried to say something and briefly looked at me, but
then she looked at the man and said, "I have no problem, as long as it's not
for too long. The night is long, and I want to work it all." He grabbed her
hand, and they disappeared from my sight.

I noticed that I had entered a corridor adorned with blue neon lights. I could
hear the distorted sounds of music and a man speaking into a microphone,
narrating the different shows that would be happening at the bar. A reddish
light filled the place, and green and purple neon tubes decorated the
surroundings of the central dance floor, from which white light emanated as the
dances began.

I could see women constantly parading around the tables, looking for customers
and tips, hoping to be part of the joyful atmosphere of a generous table. I
lowered my gaze and said to myself, "What else could it be?" It only took the
gentle touch of my fingers to shatter those dreams over me. But this time, what
dream could be achieved when everything was done to get a customer? Bitter and
hurt, I grabbed the last two beers left on the table and slowly headed to the
bar to finish them in silence.

"What a shame," said a naked woman who had apparently just finished dancing,
"Can you hold this for me? If I don't put on my underwear, men try to stick
their fingers in when I pass by the tables." I couldn't help but say, "I'm
sorry," in such a pitiful situation. She said, "It's nothing," and smiled
before continuing on her way.

I left the bottles at the bar, and as I began my exit from that place, half
drunk, half disappointed, I felt the gentle grip of her hand again, and heard,
"Do you remember where we left off?"
