---
title: death of a father
slug: death_of_a_father
date: 2024-04-27T12:00:00-05:00
draft: false

categories: ["story"]
image: muerte_de_un_padre.jpeg
---

My mother and I were waiting for clearance from the hospital to go in to visit
him, my father. At the time of our arrival, he was celebrating his funeral
ritual with a former priest friend of his. His personal nurse was outside
standing with us. We invited her to a coffee. None of us said a word about
anything.

We got there because the night before, his best friend Gustavo, had called us
to tell us about his state, and how my father had been sending his goodbyes
through his cellphone to everyone, except him, my mother and me. I bought the
tickets to Bogota, and we parted the next day at 7:00 am to be at the hospital
at 9:00 am. That was the time when the visits start. His personal nurse got a
call from the priest, we all got up and she went to the reception to talk to
the ladies in charge of the clearance permits. I was the one going up next.

I tried to sneak in a bottle of rum to his room. I knew that the thing that he
needed the most was the taste of good liquor, but sadly I was caught with
before the entrance, so I had to leave it behind with the rest of my
belongings. When I got to his aisle, he was being held in a room with a sliding
glass door. All the rooms that were in that same aisle, were filled with
sick people, each of them more sick than the last one you saw. I didn't get a
good feeling knowing that my father was in such a corridor filled with
tragedies.

A nurse came up to me when I stood in front of my father's room. "He has a
really severe infection that can be transmitted through air, so to enter is
needed that you wear special clothing and close the door tightly as you come
in," she said while pointing her index finger at a tray full of boxes filled
with disposable clothes. I put on a set of gloves, an apron, a hair net, and a
set of shoe sleeves and slowly entered the room.

Upon entering the room, I found my father laying in bed with his eyes open,
with nothing more than a thin blanket over him. He closed his eyes for a moment
when he saw me. As soon as I walked in, he extended his fat, yellowed and
bloated hand to me asking for help; he wanted to sit down in the big brown
leather chair that was next to him. A nurse from the hospital was standing
outside watching over me to see if I needed help.

My father sat naked on the bed. His complexion was a deep yellow hue, extending
from his head to his knees, including his eyes, gums, and teeth. His lower legs
exhibited a purplish discoloration with pale patches scattered across them.
Beneath his lower back, multiple abscesses of varying sizes and stages of
maturity protruded, while on his hip, a sizable wound gaped, dressed with
bandages saturated in medicinal ointment. Within the wound, screws were
visible, securing his femur in place to prevent movement. Numerous tubes were
affixed to his body, some aiding in the drainage of bile fluids, while others,
positioned along his back, served to alleviate fluid buildup around his lungs.

Because of the amount of needles, I didn't know how to grab onto him, and
because of his immobilized leg, I didn't know how to carry him. The nurse went
into the room and said, "Don't worry about the needles, they won't come out and
he won't feel pain from moving them. Hold his leg and grab his shoulder, I will
push his weight onto you when I stand him. It should be easy enough then to
rotate him into the chair." After we were finished, I grabbed the thin blanket
and covered the lower half of his body.

My father sat heavily on the chair, and while breathing slowly and painfully,
we looked into each other's eyes for what seemed to be a long time. It wasn't
until I teared up that my father asked me how I was doing. With nothing more
than a profound feeling of defeat, I sat down on the floor, put my head on his
lap, and tried to cry, but nothing more than tears came out.

"Everything is going great," I said, "Hopefully I will get a raise by October
as I told you before." "Happy?" he asked. "Very," I said, "This is the
opportunity that I have been waiting for." I felt how he tried to move his hand
next to me, but he just put it down where it was. "My mother doesn't stop
bothering me about the house," I said. "What happens with the house?" he asked.
"She wants to change everything about the house, the only thing that will
remain the same if she gets her way is the address," I said. He tried to laugh
but the pain didn't let him, he put his hand over my head. "She will drain us
out of our money; you should talk to her when she comes up," I said, "I won't
be able to buy the other car that I really want if she keeps this up." He tried
to laugh again.

I got up, wiped away my tears and picked up my things. "I will go down to get
my mother," I said. I went next to the door of the room, took all the
disposable clothes off, and stepped out of the room. I moved the sliding door
smoothly until it clicked and went down for her.

While my mother and my father spoke, I called my accountant and our bank
manager, to put them up to speed with the situation and ask them if something
was needed to secure our money into my bank account. They told me that they
would call me back in a while if something was needed to be fixed. I crossed
the street to drink coffee in the cafeteria that was in the lobby of an
expensive hotel, just a few steps away from the hospital.

My mother came in with her head low with a real sense of dread for the first
time in her life, as her only and true support in life, was going to leave her
behind. I tried to say something to her, but before I could even try, the bank
manager called back, telling me about the authorization needed from him to pass
the money around. I immediately got up and walked back to the entrance of the
hospital to talk to his personal nurse; she told me that I would need to wait a
little longer to go up again, there were more visits.Came back to the
restaurant, my mother and I ordered one chicken sandwich cut in half with two
cappuccinos. We sat while the food arrived, and when it did, she asked me if
this was the right time to do it. "Yes," I said. We didn't talk until I got the
call from his nurse; it was my time to come back to the room.

The second time that I entered his room, I couldn't help but just look at the
floor; this time there was no emotion, he knew why I was in the room again. "I
need a call to the bank right now, to authorize a transfer, also need your
cellphone to change passwords and accounts now," I said, while slowly looking
up to him again. "Weren't we already prepared for all of this?" he asked.
"Yes," I said, "But there is a final call that we need to make to finish all of
this now." I handed the phone over to him with the bank manager already waiting
in the line; they talked for a bit and then he said, "I fully understand and I
authorize Mateo to do the needed movements," then he hung up. My father gave
back my phone and said, "I told your mother that I want another bedroom for me
when I go to visit." He paused for a moment to catch his breath, "I will be
alright," He said while smiling at me. "So instead of telling my mother to
spend less money, you give her more reasons to leave me dry," I said smiling
back. He tried to laugh.

"Am I a good son?" I asked while I was picking up my things. "Yes," he said
while looking away from me. "You are the best father," I said. He looked back
at me with a smile. "Your mother told me that you brought a bottle of rum," he
said. "Yes, but they didn't let me get it in," I said. "Leave it at my house,"
he said, "Put it underneath my clothes, I don't want anyone to find it."

Those were the last words that my father and I exchanged. The next day, he
would be placed into a coma, waiting for his vital signs to normalize and
evaluate if an operation is plausible. The next visits were spoiled by a son
talking to his old mother, imploring her to not die. They were visiting her
in the room next my father's, "Too much despair", I though. And a mother,
reading and washing her young but comatose son over and over again. She was
located in the room in front of my father's, "Too much pity", I though. The
last day that I visited him at the hospital, I carried a small ball of cotton
filled with rum; when nobody was watching, I rubbed it on his lips.

My last visit regarding the subject of his death was done the day that he was
buried. I sat down at the last row on the left side of the church. I stayed in
the ceremony until a message notifying me the last wire from his account came
in. I got up and sat on a bench in front of the church. The sun raised over the
clouds and covered me with its light, and for the first time the symbol of what
it could mean, felt muted.
